# Paddles App Documentation

## Frontend

The Paddles App frontend is a React Native application designed to record and calculate stroke rates. The main files involved in this part of the application are:

- **app/html.tsx**: The entry point for the app.
- **components/StrokeDetector.tsx**: Handles the logic for detecting strokes based on acceleration data.
- **components/firebaseUtils.tsx**: Manages interactions with Firebase for uploading datasets.

### Firebase Configuration

To set up Firebase, you can either create a Firebase app yourself or contact *me* for the `firebaseConfig.json` file. This configuration is primarily used to upload `dataset.csv` files to Firebase Storage.

### Getting Started with the Frontend

1. Navigate to the frontend directory:

   ```cd frontend```

Install the necessary packages:

  ```npm install```
Start the Expo development server with the tunnel option:

  ```npx expo start --tunnel```
  
Ensure your local machine is connected to the same network as your phone and set your network profile to Private Network.

Download the Expo Go app on your mobile device, and use your phone's camera to scan the QR code that appears after running the npx expo start --tunnel command.

## Backend
The backend of the Paddles App is a Flask server that can be easily deployed to Vercel. It comprises the following key files:

app.py: The main server application.

### Firebase Configuration

Similar to frontend, but you need to find the service api keys generated by firebase. You can ask me for the key or create your own app.

firebase.py: Interacts with Firebase Storage to read datasets.
stroke_rate.py: Contains the logic for calculating stroke rates, specifically the stroke_multi function (implemented by *Minh Dang*, *Ramiz Khan*).

### Deployment

The backend can be deployed to Vercel following [this tutorial](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=miQmOlPF_Gs&t=468s). The server reads datasets from Firebase Storage and calculates stroke counts using the logic defined by @Minh Dang and @Ramiz Khan.

### Getting Started with the Backend

Navigate to the backend directory:

```cd backend```
### Run the server:

```python app.py```
Install any missing Python packages using pip if necessary.
